# :cloud:Surrounded by the Clouds: a Comprehensive Cloud Reachability Study:cloud::cloud:

Lorenzo Corneo<sup>1</sup>, Maximilian Eder<sup>2</sup>, Nitinder
Mohan<sup>2</sup>, Aleksandr Zavodovski<sup>1</sup>, Suzan
Bayhan<sup>3</sup>, Walter Wong<sup>4</sup>, Per Gunningberg<sup>1</sup>,
Jussi Kangasharju<sup>4</sup>,Jörg Ott<sup>2</sup>

Uppsala University<sup>1</sup>, Technical University of
Munich<sup>2</sup>, University of Twente<sup>3</sup>, University of
Helsinki<sup>4</sup>


---


This repository contains useful code to replicate the results that are
included in our publication *Surrounded by the Clouds: A Comprehensive
Cloud Reachability Study*, which is accepted at **The Web Conference
2021**:tada::sparkler:. Check the paper out
[here](https://lorenzocorneo.github.io/papers/2021-www.pdf):page_with_curl::page_with_curl:


---


# Abstract

In the early days of cloud computing, datacenters were sparsely
deployed at distant locations far from end-users with high end-to-end
communication latency. However, today's cloud datacenters have become
more geographically spread, the bandwidth of the networks keeps
increasing, pushing the end-users latency down.  In this paper, we
provide a comprehensive cloud reachability study as we perform
extensive global client-to-cloud latency measurements towards 189
datacenters from all major cloud providers. We leverage the well-known
measurement platform RIPE Atlas, involving up to 8500 probes deployed
in heterogeneous environments, e.g., home and offices. Our goal is to
evaluate the suitability of modern cloud environments for various
current and predicted applications. We achieve this by comparing our
latency measurements against known human perception thresholds and are
able to draw inferences on the suitability of current clouds for novel
applications, such as augmented reality. Our results indicate that the
current cloud coverage can easily support several latency-critical
applications, like cloud gaming, for the majority of the world’s
population.


---
